Hi everybody,
thank you very much for coming.
This is an experiment for us.
This is a full Q&A session
and we've seen it work really,
really well at other conferences.
Before I sort of describe a little
bit about the session itself,
I'm going to describe what it isn't.
So this is not the
QuickTime feedback forum.
The QuickTime feedback forum is on
Friday at 5 and that's where you can
ask all the questions and sort of,
"We'd love the product to do this."
This session is more intended for,
"Okay, we understand that the
product doesn't do this.
What's a good way around that?" Or,
"As a content provider,
we're trying to get this accomplished.
What are the potholes along that path?
What are the best strategies?" And we
are so lucky to have all of these folks
both on the panel and in the audience.
There's clearly dozens
and dozens of experts.
I see many people that we know
quite well as experts in the field.
My hope is that the way that
this works is you'll come up and
definitely want to use the microphone
so that it's recorded accurately.
And ask the question and then we'll
sort of take a second to figure out who
can probably best answer the question.
There may be times when it's
somebody in the audience.
And we've seen these sessions
go completely haywire where then
the audience is answering the
audience's questions and the
panelists just sort of disappear.
I'm kidding.
But we'll start it off by having,
I'll pass the mic down so that each of
these folks can introduce themselves
and their general area of expertise
so that then the questions can be sort
of formulated based on who's here.
We don't have people from the
pro applications product group,
so in-depth questions
on Final Cut Pro may be
a little bit difficult.
But within this sort of spectrum and the
people that we do have in the audience,
hopefully we can answer a
lot of your questions and
get a good dialogue going on.
And if there aren't a lot of questions,
then it'll end quickly and that's that.
So my email address should come up here.
Never mind.
So if you've got feedback on
how this might work better,
give it to me and we'll sort
of see if this session is worth
doing over and over again.
We've got a lot of these
folks typically in the labs,
but to have them all available
at a fixed time here is something
that we're really happy to try out.
So with that,
I'll hand it over to Ryan Lynch.
[Transcript missing]
I'm Eric Blampied.
I spent a long time working at
Apple on QuickTime's interactive stuff.
Now I'm on my own doing
a variety of things.
Interactivity and mixing media,
I'm really into taking lots of
different kinds of media and
putting them in the same movie.
And it's also pretty fun to do
things that require a lot of
resources out of the server,
a lot of getting data in and out,
and that's all fun stuff.
So that's me.
I'm John Healy with Akamai Technologies.
Akamai is the content
delivery partner for Apple.
We deliver a lot of Apple streaming
content as well as a broad
variety of HTTP content as well.
We work closely with Ryan, Glenn,
and Dennis and their organizations
in terms of getting Apple's content
out on the web more effectively.
Hi, I'm Alec Hendry from MTV Networks,
UK and Ireland.
My speciality is a lot
of interactivity stuff.
Now with QuickTime,
mainly focusing on 2.5 and
3G video mobile content.
I'm Steve Gooley.
I'm a writer for Apple and
my specialty is HTML,
stupid web tricks,
and using the QuickTime player
as a kind of Swiss army
knife for QuickTime content.
Ben Wagoner I am Ben Wagoner
and I'm a compression nerd.
Hi, I'm Mark Revis from Bluish.
We design and develop a lot
of interactive QuickTime,
particularly with live stage,
media players, that sort of thing.
Hi, I'm Michael Schaff.
I do interactivity with Livestage.
A lot of front-end and
back-end stuff and loud,
bright shoes.
Hi, I'm Guillaume Yacineau and I'm
the bridge between the developers
and the programmers of Livestage.
So I have to speak with those guys,
try to translate in French,
then to the developers
to make the bridge.
All right,
so let's have our first question.
Excellent, go ahead.
Adam Wilt, Omnion Video Networks.
We're moving our file system over
to that we can be compatible with
Europe and Asia and everyone else.
And our question is about encoding media
paths in alias atoms and QuickTime files.
Is there a recommended practice for
encoding Unicode strings in alias atoms?
UTF-8, UTF-16, double byte?
or if this is confusing
to you guys as it is to us
Any takers?
Who's the taker?
Can you speak a little bit more
closely to the microphone so that
we can hear the question again?
I can.
Yes,
we're writing our own QuickTime files.
The alias atoms that point to media
files within the QuickTime wrapper
are normally encoded in a
file system dependent fashion.
We're moving our entire
file system over to Unicode,
and I'm curious what the best
way is to put Unicode strings
into alias atom media paths.
What's the best way to do that?
It will be UTF-8,
but it's not supported yet,
I don't believe.
We have just introduced in
Tiger UTF support for user data atoms,
and we're moving towards
that throughout the system.
But right now, you really can't do it.
What you need to do is contact
Apple Engineering and get it on the seed
list for the next rev of the file format,
because we're heading in
the same direction you are,
but we're not there yet.
We have to release it in
August as part of our release
for our media server software.
So if UTF-8 is the way to go,
that's the way we'll proceed.
That's the way to go,
and one of the big things is instead
of using the Mac language coding,
you'll use the three
character ISO encoding,
but you'll only use the
least significant five bits,
because you're going to pack them
all into a 32-bit field or something.
Okay,
and if we want more information on this,
the best way is to get
on the Tiger seed list?
Or who should we contact?
Yeah, contact me and I'll get you in
touch with the right people.
Okay, I'm sorry, your name again?
Steve Gouley, gouley@apple.com.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Hello.
This question might be for Ryan.
Is there a workaround or trick
to launching multiple instances
of QuickTime Broadcaster
on a single machine?
I heard somebody mention in one of the
sessions that they were doing that,
so that you can encode multiple
streams on a single machine with
QuickTime 6 Broadcaster using the
same DV source for both instances.
So actually, launching multiple streams,
I'm not live yet.
So launching multiple streams or
multiple instances of broadcaster
is not a supported activity.
So it's not something that, you know,
from our... Well,
I was asking for the workaround.
Exactly, exactly.
So who has experience doing that?
Nobody has experience doing that.
There are some alternative apps.
That we haven't tested fully but that
are capable of doing multiple streams.
Steven, you want to comment?
What's that app that Wirecast?
Right,
I've experimented with that a little bit.
But the gentleman from University of
Wisconsin who presented earlier this
morning mentioned that on their XServe
cluster they were doing that somehow.
I should probably ask him.
I didn't have time to ask him.
I thought somebody else here might know.
Also, does that-- Do you want
to know how to try it?
Yeah.
You figured that out?
So you just move it and then reinstall?
Is that how you do it?
Yeah.
You just copy it and
name it something else?
Can they both access the same DV source?
So they both can't access
the same DV source,
but they can do many, many audio streams.
Okay, we'd need them to access
the same DV source.
Unfortunately for DV that doesn't work,
but for analog or any other
mechanism getting it in.
That's a VDIG thing with
QuickTime that we need to resolve.
So they must be using it just to,
because they have these tuner cards,
those are different sources.
So if you put in multiple of
those Miglia tuner cards in there,
it'll work.
I see, yeah.
And then does anyone have any
recommendations for products that,
for live webcasting that tightly
integrate with PowerPoint or Keynote that
are out there today that could put slides
up on viewer screens next to the live
stream and when a user in the studio,
say, clicks on a different slide
in Keynote or PowerPoint,
it sends that command
down to flip the slide?
So there's a gentleman from
the University of Sydney that
wrote an app that looks to
be tremendous for doing that.
Doesn't that involve exporting
the stuff out of PowerPoint?
It's not using it in PowerPoint,
I don't think.
Well, everything I've seen that does
anything with PowerPoint integration
tends to require exporting the
slide deck into some other format
and posting it on a web server,
either into like PNG or
JPEGs or something,
or GIF images,
and then it sends URL flip commands.
But what I was really hoping for
though was something that would,
besides just converting it and
then sending those script commands,
if it could actually monitor a person
running the PowerPoint deck or Keynote
deck and see what slide they're on,
so that the person running the encoder
doesn't have to follow along and
know what slide URL flip to send.
. Glenn Bullich Breeze does that?
It monitors PowerPoint?
But isn't it,
it's also flash spark video only too,
isn't it?
Doesn't it only do flash spark video?
It doesn't do QuickTime encoding, right?
Something that would work for QuickTime.
I know of some solutions for
Windows Media that do it,
but I'm looking for
something with QuickTime.
There's the product that
the 21st Century Media guys
had that Tarantella bought.
Castream.
Castream?
That's ruled out because it requires
a proprietary player to be downloaded
and installed on all viewers' machines,
a proprietary server,
and licensing fees for
simultaneous viewers.
It's too expensive and impractical
to deploy to thousands of
users in an enterprise.
One possible solution would be to use
something like ChannelStorm where you've
got one video feed on the speaker,
one video feed on the
PowerPoint presentation so the
guy who's queuing things up knows
which graphic to bring up and
he's got his own graphics queue.
So I think you could do it
that way with ChannelStorm.
Do you mean where you take the
PowerPoint as one of the video sources?
Right.
You aim a camera at the PowerPoint screen
and you're the guy who's in
charge of sending out the images,
looks and sees what's there,
looks through his queue of images
and queues up the one you want.
Which sounds like what you want to do.
There's no script.
There's an actual human being involved.
Well, we have an alternative,
if I may answer that.
We have an alternative for that.
We export PowerPoint in JPEGs,
many JPEGs.
We ask for the person that will hold the
presentation to give us the PowerPoint to
export in JPEGs and import as JPEGs.
And then we have a list
of JPEGs and the films,
and then we play with that.
It gives us a certain kind of freedom.
But if you have a very long presentation,
it can be tricky.
So it's a workaround.
What's it called?
It's still China Store.
Oh, you're talking about live channel.
Yeah, China Store.
Okay, great.
Maybe I'll check with you after.
Thank you.
And if you pop me an email,
I'll try and get you that University of
Sydney app when it shows up and we can
all look at it a little bit more closely.
I heard about it two hours ago,
so I don't know much about it yet.
Next question.
Yes.
I have been working in a
workflow system where I have
a server centralized encoder,
and I use Cleaner for that.
And with help of AppleScript,
I get my workflow to work.
And I have 300 students
that post their videos.
And you know Cleaner is getting shaky
and have many problems and bugs.
I have two questions.
One is what's happening?
You know the bug about
the time watch folder.
There is a watch folder feature,
and there is a time problem
in Cleaner at encoding time.
Encoding time is shorter
than the film itself.
Many times I can't encode it finished.
Maybe you have that experience.
The second question is,
do you have an alternative?
I'm looking for something
not too expensive,
but something that works with
QuickTime and Mac platform.
Yeah.
Cleaner has no apparent
engineering going on anymore.
I heard there are a couple of engineers
assigned to Cleaner as a product,
but there's not been much evidence out
of discreet of any actual work progress
for over a year now on the Mac product.
The two compression tools right now
that we're seeing progress on on
the Mac are obviously Compressor.
We also have Source and
Squeeze 4 has been announced.
And I'm not sure if the status
of AppleScripting is in there,
but I believe they've entered beta
and I'm sure you can contact them.
They probably, you know,
they're very responsive
about that kind of stuff.
I can give you some ideas on that.
And there's also Compression Master from,
you know, the company that's been
working on it for a while now.
And I'm not sure if they've been
I'm not sure if they've been
working on it for a while now.
Popwire.
Out of Sweden.
And I don't know if they
do automation either,
but they both support watch folders and
compression and all the kind of stuff.
So they're kind of both working
to fill that Cleaner niche.
And both are a lot more stable today.
Thank you.
Good answer.
And if when you ask a question,
if you could give your name and company,
that'd be also helpful.
I'm Norman Holstall,
I work for a Dutch public broadcaster.
Do you need the name?
No.
Good, good,
you wouldn't understand it anyway.
I don't, trust me.
We're using Final Cut Pro to do
editing and we're using ingest
machines to do the digitizing to
Final Cut Pro ingest machines.
It's a little crazy we use this
big sophisticated application,
we think, with people who don't
understand what they're doing
and they tend to change things,
screw things up.
We need a very simple
QuickTime application just to digitize,
photo JPEG, 75% whatever,
preferably then to transcode it to
35%. Can't find anything out there
that will just do a simple job,
everything will grab it,
but we can't get any time code in.
Nothing will give us time code as well
and we need it with time code of course.
Anybody, any ideas?
: Does Pipeline Digital still
have their product from back
in the video vision days?
They had a pretty good stand-alone
QuickTime capture tool that worked
with Timecode with the Telecast,
hereby I reveal my age.
And I think those guys are
still around in some fashion
selling some kind of tool.
I'm not sure if they still
have a Mac OS X version though,
but you might check out Pipeline Digital.
We've looked at the Popwire
people and stuff like that,
Compression or Ingest
Master or something,
but nothing will do Photo JPEG.
Yeah, but the Compression Master,
they've integrated
their own codec support,
so they don't actually support
arbitrary QuickTime codecs.
That said,
I thought that Motion JPEG they
support internally.
Motion, but not Photo JPEG.
We use Declink cards,
Declink cards always use Photo JPEG,
and it's brilliant,
it's much better than Motion JPEG.
For fielded content you want
to use Motion JPEG instead,
it's 4:2:2 and gives
you support for fields.
So for really like 95% of
all applications if you're
trying to capture video,
you're better off with Motion JPEG.
We did that, and it was for the small
bit rates that we need,
it was rubbish.
So we used Photo JPEG at 1 megabyte.
Well, just put it on single field mode.
At worst,
Motion JPEG should only have about
another 10% higher data rate for
the same quality of Photo JPEG.
You put it in single field mode.
So you're probably making
Motion JPEG work for you.
for you with a little bit of tweaking.
OK, thanks.
Hey, I was going to say,
doesn't Squeeze ingest DV?
Yeah.
And does it do timecode?
Squeeze can do live capture off DV.
And the new version of Squeeze 4
might be able to do timecode.
I haven't tried that yet.
But that would be an obvious feature.
Is your source always DV,
or do you have other formats?
Digibeta.
Yeah,
it definitely does not support Digibeta.
It's a DV-only solution, Squeeze.
Do you need to capture it in
higher resolution than DV?
[Transcript missing]
Transcoding Digibeta to DV is
morally reprehensible though.
That's it on the questions?
Okay, I've got a question.
Sorry.
This is a real quick one.
This is an easy one, right?
I've got some instructional content
that I'd like to have the end user
let's say it's a drill and practice
thing and there's a score keeper on
the screen and they close out the
QuickTime movie and I'd like to have it
so that when they come back that score
is still there and they can continue on.
This is an easy one, right?
This is an easy one.
I don't want to use
any server side stuff.
That's way too complicated.
Come on, we've got to keep this simple.
Now there's just one answer.
So we developed a component
to be able to save cookies,
to be able to save some XML file
into the user for desktop.
We made that available to our developers,
and we are currently in a
discussion with Apple to be able
to upload that onto their server.
So soon, hopefully,
we'll be able to do it.
I mean, you do have the 4.5.
Oh, absolutely.
So you can do it from within.
We provide you the installer,
so you can do some .
You can deploy right now.
You can deploy just mode.
The only thing that you cannot
do is have the-- I mean,
you can send your user to a web
page to download the installer
and install the component.
How about a related question?
When are we going to see that component
on the QuickTime component page?
It's under discussion.
It's going to be in the future.
In the future.
future.
On a related thing,
there is a piece of shareware that
allows you to do live streams with slides
synchronized together called SlidesNow.
So if you go to slidesnow.com,
you can check it out.
It's like 25 bucks.
Super simple.
Excellent.
Good answer.
And I know you said you
didn't want to use the server,
but with XML file exchange
you really can send it or a
JavaScript that will submit a form.
So, you know,
this is a problem that has been solved
that you can apply the traditional way.
You can't, right now there's no way
to make a QuickTime movie,
write something to the user's disk
and there are reasons for that.
But you can send a JavaScript submit
or mail to or an XML list
exchange with the server,
which is the way you can do it now.
As long as the stuff is
being put in a web page,
the cookie question can
be handled by the browser,
right?
Question on the right.
Hi, Rich Carton, Penn State University.
I've got somebody who wants to undertake
a project that wants to put multiple
live streams in layers in a movie and the
streams would come to the front triggered
by flash buttons also embedded in a layer
in the movie and we're sort of trying
to get an idea of how many streams we can
ask QuickTime to handle within how many
layers can QuickTime handle for streams.
I guess that's about it.
Mark, do you want to take that?
Not particularly.
So while you have no limitation of
number of streaming tracks that you
can have inside the QuickTime Movie,
like the number of flash tracks,
text tracks and so on,
you have no limitation at all.
You have a limitation in
terms of the bandwidth.
If you try to send five
streams at one megabit,
it's going to be too big.
So it will depend on your data weight
and bandwidth on the client side.
What you can do,
you can create a flash interface with
several streaming tracks and stop one,
start the next one, stop one,
start the next one and switch them.
You will have a little
delay between the switch.
These are live streams?
You can do that with live streams.
Assume gigabit bandwidth.
Yeah, it has been done years
ago with live stage.
And it was with like QuickTime 5,
I believe.
So it's possible, yes.
I like the idea of gigabit bandwidth.
Where do you live?
Yeah, and the university, of course,
that's the right answer.
Next question.
I have basically two questions.
One question is,
does Flash support streaming,
QuickTime streaming format?
Not at all.
Can one explain why that?
What is the reason?
They are playing the
same play like Microsoft.
They want to build their own
streaming servers or things like that?
That question probably is good,
better at Flash forward than at show.
Okay.
We'll go to the next one.
I'm having a hard time compressing
MPEG-4 under 256 because in Denmark,
where I come from, MPEG-4 is 256 is our
ADSL lowest denominator.
And MPEG-4 is doing a great
job between 280 up to 512.
But what's the problem there?
What should I be aware?
Are you going for real-time
streaming or progressive download?
Progressive download.
Real-time streaming, also, both.
Okay.
Check out Compression Master.
Compression Master is a good
two-pass MPEG-2 CBR mode,
which QuickTime itself lacks.
So you can typically get
substantially better compression
efficiency out of that,
especially for low bitrate
streaming applications.
Because QuickTime's encoder
is a single pass only.
And both Squeeze and Compression
Master support two-pass VBR encoding
for progressive download.
And both can offer,
because it's two-pass,
substantially better quality than
the QuickTime encoder itself can.
Right.
I mean, you can kind of do the
QuickTime MPEG-4 encoder.
It's the free one you get to start with.
But if you're doing, like,
really high-end encode stuff,
you definitely can use Squeeze or
Compression Master in the back.
Thank you.
The other thing might be to also look
at the content itself and if there's
a way to crop to the area of interest.
And maximize the compression on the
area of the image that's important.
You know,
there's some savings there as well.
Yes, but here it's an environment,
automatized environment,
where I have no experts
working at the same time.
So I have to respect their journalists.
They do all kinds of things.
Understood.
And of course,
as H.264 comes onto the market,
you'll see a substantial improvement
in either the amount of data that
you're saving for the same image
or increasing the size of the
image that you're compressing.
Hi, Josh Blazer.
I'm with the Art Institutes.
We have a large number of
campuses across the country,
not only Art Institutes but
also other college brands,
67 total locations.
We're building an infrastructure to do
streaming media across all the campuses,
which is typical, I think,
of a lot of companies trying
to get information from
the top down and bottom up.
We've found some solutions
on the Windows side,
but we're also a big Mac shop as well.
So I'm wondering if there's any
solutions you guys know of in content
management of QuickTime content
where at the local level,
you're able to quickly
browse through content.
I know that if you guys are
familiar with VBRIC or some of
the other solutions out there that
allow this type of functionality,
basically you have a local
streaming server at each
location within the organization.
And then it's basically
a web type interface,
but they're pre-built type solutions,
extensible for the
content management piece.
So I'm wondering if you
guys know of any out there.
If you like VBRIC, VBRIC will work with
QuickTime encoded MPEG4 files.
So if you already have a
VBRIC network deployed,
just export your MPEG from Final Cut and
drop it on there and you're good to go.
Do you already have VBRIC stuff?
We don't yet.
We're in the process of
kind of researching and
building the project together.
We're also looking at it from a
digital signage point of view too for
our galleries and different student
areas as well to broadcast content.
That would be more
full screen type stuff.
VBRIC scales great from
standard F down to QCF.
They don't have a
high-desolation in place,
but as long as your signage is
only going to be standard F,
it's quite consistent.
You can get great signage quality at 6
to 8 megabits for MPEG2 and it'll scale
down to 32 kilobit MPEG4 if you need it.
They have MPEG1, MPEG2,
MPEG4 solutions and if
you go to their website,
all the live streams that
they're doing right now,
are completely ISO compliant,
playback fine in QuickTime Player or
any of the other ISO players.
They're doing live
events right now from Dr.
Ballard's expedition in the
Black Sea or something like that.
I wasn't aware of the
support for QuickTime,
so that's great.
Absolutely.
Thank you.
Hello, Dave Bergevin from Soma Media.
I have a question about
QuickTime chapter tracks.
We use them exclusively
in our applications.
We actually use TribeWorks iShell.
And if you use chapter
tracks inside of QuickTime,
you can actually have a lot of
chapter tracks and you can have
scrolling capability in QuickTime.
But if you embed it into a web page,
I think, and definitely in TribeWorks,
you have the, you're limited,
you can't scroll.
So whatever the resolution
of your screen is,
that's how many chapter
tracks you can display.
Is there a way to actually have that
feature inside of an embedded environment
like TribeWorks or on the web?
Eric, you've been voted in.
No, do you want to comment on that?
That's probably because I'm somewhat
affiliated with TribeWorks lately,
but I don't work on iShell.
I can only think about workarounds,
ways to get the chapter data out
yourself and then build lists there.
Yeah, we've done that,
but a lot of times it's more
efficient just to use the
chapter tracks way QuickTime,
QuickTime implements it.
Oh, absolutely.
I agree.
It's really,
really easy and it's a great feature,
the scrolling capability
that's in QuickTime,
but I'm wondering if TribeWorks,
if there's a way to control it within,
from, like if TribeWorks can
do something or if there,
to actually,
if the feature is actually there.
Have you talked with TribeWorks
engineering about this?
Yes,
but it's kind of on the back burner and
they don't even know if it's possible,
so that's why I'm asking
you if it's even possible.
Okay, well, we'll pass it down there,
but I'd be happy to help talk
to you with them about it.
Okay.
I don't know about TribeWorks,
but with respect to the QuickTime plugin,
I would file it as a bug with our
bug reporter and see if we can't
get it fixed in the next rev.
Last answer on that.
I have built something similar.
It doesn't have quite the
same question that you have,
but basically processes
over a chapter track.
And then I have a small piece that
is a flash track that I can just
drop into any QuickTime movie.
And then what the flash track is
doing is auto generating movie
clips so I can scroll that space.
So for me it's better functionality
than what is done in QuickTime because
I can have it look the way that I want.
I can have the color scheme, yada, yada,
yada that I want to have.
That's not a very difficult flash
task nor a difficult QuickTime task.
It can be done once and then
applied to many projects.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
I'm Hal Meeks from
North Carolina State University.
I was talking to this
gentleman over here earlier.
He was having a question about
broadcasting live events where the
speaker wants to do PowerPoint.
You want to do the classic talking
head with PowerPoint and some
stuff at the bottom of the screen.
There's a company called InVivio.
They're a member of the IMSA consortium,
as is Apple, and they do have a hardware
product that will do exactly that.
It is about $15,000.
It's called Forecaster Lite.
You literally take your PC,
plug it into the back of this device.
It takes VGA and encodes a VGA stream,
an analog video stream,
and an audio stream.
It also indexes the content in real time.
What it generates out is an H.264 stream.
Of course, I haven't had a chance to
actually test this with the
pre-release of Apple's product,
but I would imagine that
it would work quite well.
Glenn Bullich If it's InVivio-based,
it probably uses the best of the best.
binary format for Synths,
which I believe has not been
announced for QuickTime.
It's not supported today.
That's one of the things
I wanted to clarify here.
Is that is that going to
be something that you will
eventually be able to support?
Well the VIVIO has a plugin
for QuickTime Player on
Windows today and they've shown,
I actually demoed at Macworld 2003,
an alpha of their Mac version.
Have they shipped that yet?
Yes, I've got it running.
Okay so yes if you have
that which can do biffs,
that's a plug-in,
but unless somehow someone convinced
Apple to start including that as part
of the component download program.
I'll be at the feedback forum on Friday.
Yeah okay.
I'll be mentioning this but yeah
I'm already aware of the issues
and there is of course a licensing
issue involved with this as well.
Yeah.
With their product but it is a,
it does exactly what they tell it,
say that it will do.
It's pretty amazing.
Hi, I'm Amy.
I work at Apple.
I just wanted to address your
question about H264 in the Tiger Seed.
Yes.
I know it's not a
complete... I'm not... No,
no, no.
Right.
You guys have heard me say
that a million times so far.
But I just wanted to let you
know that the way that it's in
there is not like all the other
QuickTime codecs at this point in time.
Yes, I know.
I found out.
Yes.
Okay.
So I just want to make sure that
was clear because it probably
won't work with another app.
It's not safe for internal consumption.
You shouldn't use it
while you're showering.
Yeah.
I just mean that it won't... If you
put another app on top of QuickTime,
it won't show up.
No.
I know.
Never mind.
I was trying to get to my desktop
machines so I could actually try it out.
But never mind.
But anyway, it is a very cool product.
It does seem to work.
Great suggestion.
Hello, Mike Carr,
Coconino Community College in Flagstaff,
Arizona.
I got a couple questions for you.
The first one you may or
may not have an answer to,
and I was wondering what the
hardware requirements or the
projected hardware requirements
of H.264 playback are going to be.
I mean, so clearly that's,
it's dependent on the data rate of
the stream that's to be decoded,
right?
So we've shown on the dual G5, 8 megabit,
1980, 1080, 1920, 1080 at 24 FIPS,
and then in Steve's demo you
saw a variety of data rates.
So, you know, there's no set requirement.
Yesterday we showed,
so the short answer is we don't have
that data yet because we're not done yet,
so we'll have to get back to you
with the final answer with that.
But yesterday in our session about it,
we showed on an iBook,
and it was a 1 GHz G4 iBook
that you could play back,
I think it was 960 by 5 something
because it was sort of letterbox.
And that data rate was 5 megabits,
no it wasn't 5 megabits,
it was 1.5 I think.
So anyway,
that's just an idea of what we have now,
and we're still working on it.
So we don't have the final answer,
but we'll get back to you.
And just another comment on that,
there are about 60 companies that
have either pre-announced or announced
that they're developing encoders,
decoders,
all sorts of tools based on 264.
And you know, some of the decode hardware
requirements are down to the,
you know,
sort of sub-100 milliwatt chips for,
you know, mobile device decode.
So the codec, given its scalability,
can also scale on its processor,
on the processor requirements for decode.
Minimum playback requirements for
H264 are a cellphone or better?
My next question is,
I want to capture H263
content into a QuickTime file.
I want to know if that's doable.
Yeah, the 263 codecs have been
in QuickTime for years now,
since like QuickTime 4, I think.
Yeah, so just pick us a codec when you're
doing it with QuickTime Broadcaster
and you're good to go.
Are you trying to make a
.mov file with 263 content?
Pretty much.
Anything.
Yeah.
It works.
Before Source 3 and MPEG-4 came out,
that was the dominant
streaming codec in QuickTime.
Broadcast live encoding stuff was
almost all 263 until a few years ago.
It's been in there and it's been
working fine for a long time.
You mentioned that you
tried it and it didn't work,
so that might be a little piece
of information that would help us.
What do you mean by that?
Coming out of a Tanberg 6000 system,
this is a default stream
that's viewable in QuickTime.
Can you, let me give you, sorry.
One of the interesting things
is that Tamberg themselves,
although they've developed the
QuickTime streaming component,
actually didn't know how to make it work.
When they did their testing,
all they ever did was did it from
a web page that was actually logged
on to the Tamberg 6000 itself.
And that works fine.
I've actually just,
I mean literally last week,
managed to get it streaming from a
codec to a QuickTime streaming server.
And I'm actually going to Oslo
in a few weeks time to talk to
them about the 264 component.
Because if you've got an
E-series Tamberg 6000.
Have you been able to actually capture
those streams yet or just display them?
Just display them.
We can't actually,
I mean what you can do is you can capture
it by just taking it out of the cache.
Once it's streamed to a machine
you can take it out of the cache.
But we've not managed to actually.
Save it as an ongoing stream.
But I'm actually, as I say,
I'm going to Oslo in a few, end of July.
To actually talk to their engineers.
I mean I'll,
if you want I'll talk to you afterwards.
But the main reason I'm going is
because on their new E-series 6000s,
they've already got 264 embedded.
And you can go from 6000
to 6000 with these 264.
So I'm going to talk
to them about saying,
well hey why don't you
stream the 264 as well.
So.
I'm going to, okay.
I'll find you.
Thank you Gary Shaneberg from BT.
Steve Egbert, Brigham Young University.
Let's say that I've got
some movies on the web,
progressive movies,
and I want to prevent the smart guys from
downloading and ripping off my content.
So that means that you wouldn't
be able to pull it into VLC and
bypass all the wired sprite stuff.
Do you think you guys can think
of a solution to prevent people
from ripping off my content?
Lots of takers here.
Who's first?
You want to take a stab at it first,
Steve?
Look in the back of the book,
QuickTime for the Web.
There's a couple cheapo tools.
Well, they're free.
One of them will basically,
you're going to make a reference movie,
copy, protect it,
and compress the header,
and then take the header out of your
source movie so that it's a box of rocks.
It's no longer a playable movie.
And you've got a reference movie
that points to your web and some
data on your web that if they copy
it to their disk doesn't do anything
because your movie points to the web.
Extending on the same question,
if I want to protect
content on an intranet,
Would you do the same stuff?
Live streaming or downloadable content?
Well, live streaming is inherently copy
protected unless somebody is really,
really smart because we don't
keep a copy of it on the disk.
Okay, not copy protected.
Preventing access, unauthorized access.
Well, let's just do the last stage way.
You could create an interactive
QuickTime movie with Wired
Sprite and create some kind of
password that will send that to a
database that will check the-- No,
you want to do something else?
As good an idea as that would be,
that actually won't be
secure because right now
QuickTime only supports HTTP GET,
in which case everything
is visible on the stack,
which means that the password
would be actually visible,
and that would be a bad thing.
Yes, this is another plug for
the totally hip component.
That actually allows you to encrypt
what would go on the line and so you
could still see it but you wouldn't
be able to tell what the data is.
The other possibility is to still
using wired sprites but get clever
and build your own encryption
scheme and then upload that.
In which case you need a flip side on
the server side to actually decrypt it.
Then there's probably a
lot more details there.
But ultimately you have to
look at what your audience is
expecting because it really does
get down to an end user question.
What kind of environment are
you delivering content to and
what kind of user experience
are they willing to go through?
Well, there is this nifty little feature
of QuickTime streaming server that
gives you QT access files so you
can require a name and password.
Although there is the same problem,
it is a get and it is clear
text over your network.
That's another possibility.
Also,
I'm sure there is this neat little thing
with Akamai you can do and they have,
if you have an account with them,
they will allow you to tokenize your
references to the movies so that you have
to have a validated username and password
that isn't done through clear text.
You can do and generate
a link dynamically.
So that might be something you'd
want to talk to this guy about.
So that one there.
The last solution will be if you embed
your QuickTime movie inside an HTML,
you can have an SSL page before that
that will request for the password
and then you have the whole schema
to be able to protect your content.
Because they will not see the
QuickTime movie on that page before
you can do your security check.
When we did our annual results,
which have to go to a
closed audience in the US,
we did exactly that.
We just created an HTML environment,
linked it to a database,
made people register with
their username and password,
and then took them to an SSL page.
an SSL protected HTML page
and ultimately yes,
if someone, once they logged in once,
they could obviously find the path to the
movie but you wouldn't get that unless
you'd logged in in the first place.
Hi there, Brian Friedrich from the
Certified General Accountants
Association up in British Columbia,
Canada.
Part of this has been hit already,
but just to kind of
round up the solution.
We are going to be in a situation
where we've got lecturers and
speakers that are presenting and
we kind of want the most efficient,
read cheap but still workable
solution of being able to switch
between a video feed of the speaker
and also their slide presentation.
So I guess kind of like what was being
done last year with the WWDC material,
the DVDs.
If you want really cheap and easy,
you get a scan converter,
you get a camera,
you put it through a video switch,
you put that to a live encoder.
So if you really want cheap and easy,
that's trivial to do,
and that actually gives
you pretty good quality.
If you can live with having
the video signal be analog,
come out of the scan converter.
Any reason, would that be good enough?
What about digital options?
Uh, well...
I thought you wanted cheap and easy.
Actually, cheap and easier is the
S-video out of a PowerBook.
yeah the red yeah that are even easier
than using a scan converter we we
do that all the time where we have a
PowerPoint presentation we just want to
take it full screen as a video source in
a live webcast and we used to use a scan
converter but we found that the s video
out of the power book produces cleaner
looking results than our scan converter
and doesn't have the same problems with
putting artificial black margins around
the image that scan converters often
do so I mean that that works pretty well
if you use any standard video switcher
to switch between live cameras and
and that fee it's not the s video out
was any better than a lot of the lower
end scan converters I sort of imagine
like a VGA to SDI thing that's probably
more than you want to pay surprisingly
so I mean even slides like this with
text as small as like that blue type
translate quite well down to like sizes
of 240 by 180 which would be appropriate
for like a you know 35 to 40 kilobit per
second stream for dial-up it actually
works no that sounds perfect next yeah
the obvious solution is like a keynote
you know like a video source and then
you can just go ahead and put it in a
version like to which do all that stuff
which I could specifically about because
I have absolutely no idea if anyone's
you know thought about it but yeah I got
it wouldn't I chat AV and keynote it
seemed like there's a to these two crazy
kids gotta get together and some kind of
Joni Chachi kind of arrangement but can
definitely second that I have a question
Does anyone know of any QuickTime live
encoding solution that works
at sizes larger than 320x240?
- There are a number of products
that could do a live impact forestry
and they'll be QuickTime compatible
at higher frame sizes than that.
: Are they software or
are they like appliances?
: Yeah, Dekas and VIVIO both have them.
There's also the freeware
: I'm a big fan of the MPEG-4 IP product.
It has a live encoder built into it,
which I believe can go up to 640x480.
: And they're live?
And do they de-interlace as well?
: On the pre-processing side,
I'm pretty sure the NVIDIA product does,
and I believe the DECIS does as well.
I'm not sure about MPEG-4 IP.
Because for whatever reason,
you can't compile it on a Mac.
I'm not smart enough to do that.
It's all open source there.
It gets like 80% of the way
through and never doesn't
link or something like that.
But both of you can move
the DECIS products and
handle a de-interlacing,
I believe.
There's also some hardware and
MPEG-4 stuff out there too,
which might do the job as well.
I'm interested ideally in the
software solutions so I can
run it on a... There will be a
billion 264 solutions for this.
Yeah, I want to run it on a
PowerBook for remote live webcasts.
I've also had some experience
at Richcart from Penn State.
I did a... One second.
There's a little bit more to that answer.
In QuickTime Broadcaster,
that free little app does go up to 640,
480 as well.
It goes up to 720.
720, whatever you want.
That's what I was saying.
I've done an Internet 2
event streaming it out.
Best I could do with the top of the
line G5 was about 7 megabits per second.
But that was full screen,
high quality audio.
I still got some blockiness.
it just wouldn't encode all the way up.
No, to kind of respond to
what you were saying,
QuickTime Broadcaster lets you set
an output of 640x480 if you want,
but if you look at the results,
it looks like a 320x240
that's been doubled in size,
and there are no interlacing
artifacts present in it.
Okay?
And I know it's not
deinterlacing in real time.
What it's actually doing is asking,
you know,
at the source level in the background,
it's throwing out the fields.
It's almost certainly using
the fast mode DV codec,
which gives you a quarter screen,
a single field.
Right, so it's starting with a quarter
resolution original that,
you know, size larger than 320x240.
It doesn't really look any better.
And the perfect solution for
that would be when QuickTime's
got the functionality inside,
you want to turn the high quality
and single field flags on decode,
which you can do in QuickTime Player,
but you can't do it with the encoder.
If we just had access
to those check boxes.
And so what I've noticed is
that live channel and wire,
cast both seem bound by
that same limitation.
they both seem to produce the same
results as QuickTime 6 Broadcaster would
when you set them large in 320 x 240.
It's probably you have to find
a product that uses a different
DV decoder for real time or at least
has the ability to override what the
default setting for real time is.
I mean cause I mean on a
computer the DV codec and even a
Power Book should be 6x real time.
Sure.
On a G4 and I don't know how
insanely X real time on a G5,
so there's the power
there to do the decode.
When we see everything that
Final Cut Pro can do in real time
on you know even a nice G4 you gotta
think that it should be able to do it.
What would happen if you
compressing two times the bitrate?
No, I've tried that.
And you get less and less
compression artifacts in the result,
but there's no higher
resolution to be seen.
Yeah, the decoder itself is only
handing off a quarter screen
resolution bitmap to the encoder,
or to the processing engine.
[Transcript missing]
I've been playing with Wirecast and it
does look quite good actually because
you can switch between multiple sources.
It does quite nice 3D DVE effects as
well where it moves the presenter down
into a little screen in the corner,
a bit much like the
keynote speeches here.
You can bring in your slides.
I've been playing around trying
to export out of Keynote as a
QuickTime and then bringing that in.
You can step through the slides
from your Keynote as a QuickTime in
one window while you or your
video source appears in the other.
It does seem to be working quite well.
It does seem to have the same
limitations on the video size of
the sources you're coming from.
It is quite nice that you can just plug
in a whole load of EyeSight cameras
and switch between them quite easily.
It's cool.
On the bitrate front, calculator.apps,
pretty much all you need to really
do the details of it is how many
megabits of pipe you have available,
what the bitrate of your
stream is going to be,
multiply it together and get
your theoretical value and then
you chop maybe 25% off that
for overhead and just general,
to placate the gods, I guess.
So that's pretty straightforward,
mathematically.
One problem though is if you're
an expert from QuickTime,
QuickTime likes to measure
things in kilobytes per second
and I think say kilobytes,
1024 bytes,
while pretty much everything else in
the world measures things in kilobits
where k equals 1000 instead of 1024.
So you kind of,
sometimes have to like kind of shuffle
some numbers around in the background.
There are a lot of tools out there like
Compression Master and Squeeze which
make QuickTime files but present it in
terms of actual true kilobit values.
That can make it a little bit easier
when you're authoring stuff for,
you know, streaming views.
The impact for component will show
it to you also in kilobits as well.
But unfortunately if you open the
file up inside QuickTime player,
it will give it to you in k and a lot
of people have gotten confused thinking
that k value is actually k bytes.
I mean k bits was really k bytes.
Good point.
Well I think that looks
like the last question.